Financial stability .Overall, the banking system remains sound and resilient; although acute stress
in the banking system has receded since last March, a few areas of risk w arrant continued moni-
toring . Upw ard pressure on asset valuations continued, with real estate prices ele vated relative to
rents and high price-to-ear nings ratios in equity mar kets. Bor rowing from nonfinancial businesses
and households continued to increase at a pace slow er than that of nominal GDP , and the com-
bined debt-to-GDP ratio now sits close to its 20-year low. Vulnerabilities from financial-sector
leverage remain notable. While risk-based bank capital ratios stayed solid and increased broadly,
declines in the fair values of fixed-rate assets have been sizable relative to the regulatory capital
at some banks. Meanwhile, leverage at hedge funds has stabilized at high levels, and leverage at
life insurers increased to values close to the historical averages but with a liability composition
that has become more reliant on nontraditional sources of funding. Most banks maintained high
liquidity and stable funding, while bank funding costs continue to increase. (See the box “ Develop-
ments Related to Financial Stability ” on pages 27–28 of the March 2024 Monetar y Policy Repor t.)
International de velopments. Following a rebound in ear ly 2023, growth in foreign economic
activity w as subdued in the second half of last year . Economic growth w as par ticular ly weak in
advanced foreign economies (AFEs) as monetar y policy tightening w eighed on activity and high
inflation eroded real household incomes. Str uctural adjustment to higher energ y prices in Europe
continued to hinder economic perfor mance, while proper ty-sector w eakness and sluggish domestic
demand restrained Chinese economic activity . Foreign headline inflation has fallen fur ther,
reflecting declines in core and food inflation. How ever, the pace of disinflation has varied across
countries and sector s, with the moderation in goods inflation generally outpacing that in ser vices
inflation.
Most foreign central banks paused policy interest rate hik es in the second half of last year and
have since held rates steady . Policy rate paths implied b y financial mar ket pricing suggest that
central banks in man y AFEs are expected to begin low ering their policy rates in 2024. Se veral cen-
tral banks in emerging mar ket economies ha ve already begun easing monetar y policy . The trade-
weighted exchange value of the U.S. dollar has increased slightly , on net, since the middle of
last year .
Monetar y Policy
Interest rate policy . After significantly tightening the stance of monetar y policy since ear ly 2022,
the FOMC has maintained the target range for the policy rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent since its
meeting last July ( figure 2.4 ). Although the FOMC judges that the risks to achie ving its emplo yment
and inflation goals are mo ving into better balance, the Committee remains highly attentive to infla-
tion risks. The Committee has indicated that it does not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the
target range until it has gained greater confidence that inflation is mo ving sustainably tow ard6 110th Annual Repor t | 2023