Bank Secrecy Act and Anti-Mone y-Laundering Compliance
The F ederal Reser ve is responsible for examining institutions for compliance with the Bank
Secrecy Act (BSA) and applicable anti-mone y-laundering (AML) la ws and regulations and conducts
such examinations in accordance with the FFIEC’ s Bank Secr ecy Act/Anti-Mone y-Laundering Exami-
nation Man ual.
During 2023, the Federal Reser ve continued to par ticipate in an ongoing interagency effor t to
update this manual. Man y of the re visions are designed to emphasize and enhance the risk-
focused approach to BSA/AML super vision and to continue to pro vide transparency into the
BSA/AML and Office of F oreign Assets Control examination process.
The Anti-Mone y-Laundering Act of 2020 (AML Act) amended the Bank Secrecy Act, resulting in the
most significant re vision of the United States’ frame work for anti-mone y-laundering and countering
the financing of ter rorism (AML/CFT) since 2001. The pur pose of the act is to impro ve coordina-
tion and infor mation sharing; moder nize AML/CFT la ws; encourage technological inno vations and
the adoption of ne w technolog y; reinforce the risk-based approach to compliance; and establish
unifor m beneficial owner ship infor mation repor ting requirements with a secure, nonpublic data-
base for beneficial owner ship infor mation. The F ederal Reser ve continues to wor k with the U.S.
Treasur y, federal banking , and other agencies to implement the rele vant sections of the AML Act.
The F ederal Reser ve continued to par ticipate in the U.S. T reasur y-led BSA Advisor y Group, which
includes representatives of regulator y agencies, law enforcement, and the financial ser vices
industr y.
International Coor dination on Sanctions, Anti-Mone y-Laundering , and Counter-T errorism
Financing
The F ederal Reser ve par ticipated in a number of inter national coordination initiatives related to
sanctions, mone y laundering , and ter rorism financing . The F ederal Reser ve continued to monitor
and share infor mation with rele vant groups regarding the changing sanctions landscape and, in
particular , the ongoing global sanctions resulting from Russia’ s invasion of Ukraine.
Additionally , the Federal Reser ve has a long-standing role in the U.S. delegation to the intergo vern-
mental F inancial Action T ask F orce and its wor king groups, contributing a banking super visory per-
spective to the for mulation of inter national standards. The F ederal Reser ve also continued to par-
ticipate in the wor k of the FSB that resulted in the publication of the October 2023 publication of
the G–20 Roadmap for Enhancing Cross-border P ayments Consolidated progress repor t
for 2023.19
19See https://www .fsb.org/2023/10/g20-roadmap-for-enhancing-cross-border-pa yments-consolidated-progress-
repor t-for-2023/ .44 110th Annual Repor t | 2023