Specialized Examinations
The F ederal Reser ve conducts specialized examinations of super vised financial institutions in the
areas of capital planning and stress testing , information technolog y, fiduciar y activities, transfer
agent activities, government and municipal securities dealing and brok ering, and cyber security and
critical infrastr ucture. The F ederal Reser ve also conducts specialized examinations of cer tain non-
bank entities that extend credit subject to the Board’ s margin regulations.
Capital Planning and Stress T esting
Since the 2007–09 financial crisis, the Federal Reser ve has instituted super visory stress testing
to strengthen capital positions of the largest banking organizations. In March 2020, the Board
integrated the super visory stress test with its non-stress capital requirements through the stress
capital buffer to for m one forw ard-looking and risk-sensitive capital frame work.
In June 2023, the Federal Reser ve conducted
its annual stress test, which show ed that the
large banking fir ms tested had sufficient
levels of capital and could continue lending to
households and businesses during a se vere
recession. In July 2023, the Federal Reser ve
announced the individual capital requirements
for large banks, which include the stress
capital buffer requirement based on the
results of the 2023 stress test. These require-
ments became effective as of
October 1, 2023.
For the fir st time, the Federal Reser ve also
published an explorator y mar ket shock that
applied only to U.S. global systemically impor-
tant banks and posed a different set of risks
than the global mar ket shock component.2
Consistent with the nature of an explorator y
exercise, the explorator y mar ket shock did not
contribute to the capital requirements set b y
the 2023 stress test. F or stress testing publications released in 2023, see box 4.3 .
2The global mar ket shock applies to banks with large trading operations and stresses their trading , private equity , and
certain other fair-valued positions. It consists of a set of h ypothetical shocks to a large set of risk factor s reflecting gen-
eral mar ket distress and heightened uncer tainty . Banks with substantial trading or custodial operations are also tested
against the default of their largest counter party.Box 4.3. Stress T esting
Publications Released
in 2023
More details on the 2023 stress test sce-
narios are a vailable at https://
www.federalreser ve.go v/newsevents/
pressreleases/files/bcreg20230209a1.pdf .
More details on the 2023 stress test model
methodologies are a vailable at https://
www.federalreser ve.go v/publications/files/
2023-june-super visory-stress-test-
methodolog y.pdf.
More details on the 2023 stress test results
are available at https://
www.federalreser ve.go v/publications/files/
2023-dfast-results-20230628.pdf .
More details on the stress capital buffer
requirements published in 2023 are a vailable
at https://www .federalreser ve.go v/
publications/files/large-bank-capital-
requirements-20230727.pdfSuper vision and Regulation 31