In June 2023, the Board, the FDIC, and the OCC issued the Interagency Guidance on Third-P arty
Relationships: Risk Management that describes principles and considerations for banking organi-
zations’ risk management of third-par ty relationships, including k ey considerations for cyber secu-
rity and operational risks associated with such relationships.
In July 2023, staff from the Board and other federal banking agencies conducted an “ Ask the
Regulator” session to highlight k ey aspects of the third-par ty risk-management guidance and its
application to banks. In No vember 2023, Board staff conducted an “ Ask the F ed” session to
address questions about the guidance from banks, including smaller banks.
The F ederal Reser ve examined and monitored super vised institutions for operational risks as par t
of its safety and soundness super vision:
•In 2023, Federal Reser ve examiner s, in close coordination with the other federal banking agen-
cies, conducted examinations of IT activities (inclusive of cyber risk-management activities) and
targeted cyber security assessments of the large financial institutions, and ser vice pro viders.
•Federal Reser ve examiner s also conducted tailored cyber security assessments at community
and regional banking organizations.
•Under the authority of the Bank Ser vice Compan y Act, the federal banking agencies examined
technolog y service pro viders that pro vide ser vices for specific regulated financial
institutions.
The F ederal Reser ve collaborated with other financial regulator s, U.S T reasur y, and private industr y
to promote effective safeguards against operational and cyber risks to the financial ser vices
sector and its critical infrastr ucture. This included contributions to the F ederal F inancial Institu-
tions Examination Council’ s (FFIEC’ s) IT Subcommittee and Cyber security and Critical Infrastr ucture
Subcommittee, the Financial and Banking Infor mation Infrastr ucture Committee, the Cyber security
Forum for Independent and Executive Branch Regulator , the Depar tment of Homeland Security’ s
Cyber security and Infrastr ucture Security Agency Cyber Incident Repor ting Council, and Cyber Inci-
dent Repor ting for Critical Infrastr ucture Act-related deliberations. The F ederal Reser ve, together
with the other member s of the F inancial Banking Infor mation Infrastr ucture Committee (FBIIC) and
the Financial Ser vices Sector Coordinating Council, collaborated on financial sector resilience ini-
tiatives, including par ticipation in the Cloud Executive Steering Group.4
The Board led or contributed to cyber security activities under taken by various inter national groups.
Board staff continued to par ticipate in the wor k of the F inancial Stability Board (FSB) to address
4See U.S. Depar tment of the T reasur y, “U.S. Depar tment of the T reasur y Kicks Off Public–Private Executive Steering
Group to Address Cloud Repor t Recommendations, ” news release, May 25, 2023, https://home.treasur y.gov/news/
press-releases/jy1503 . The F ederal Reser ve and other member s of the FBIIC contributed to a T reasur y repor t that
assesses the oppor tunities and challenges the financial sector faces b y adopting cloud-based technologies, in which
this wor king group w as first announced.Super vision and Regulation 33