Outside the banking sector , leverage at large life insurance companies in 2023 remained near the
middle of its historical range and w ell below its pandemic peak. How ever, life insurance companies
continued to increase the share of assets allocated to risk y instr uments, which lea ves their capital
positions vulnerable to declines in the value of their in vestments. Based on a number of meas-
ures, leverage at hedge funds during 2023 stabilized at an ele vated le vel as the T reasur y cash-
futures basis trade continued to grow , suggesting a risk of sudden dele veraging if volatility in
Treasur y mar kets increases unexpectedly .
Funding Risk
Overall, banks’ liquidity positions remained
ample based on the risk of their funding str uc-
tures. High-quality liquid assets held b y banks
declined mildly in 2023, driven b y reductions
in holdings of central bank reser ves and b y
decreases in the mar ket values of securities
as interest rates increased. Still, the le vels of
high-quality liquid assets remained high b y his-
torical standards ( figure 3.6 ). The BTFP w as
created to mitigate funding vulnerabilities of
banks amid the stresses of mid-March 2023
and ended on March 11, 2024. A measure of
the exposure of banks to interest rate risk—
calculated as the difference betw een the
timing of cash flows arising from bank assets
and liabilities—declined o ver the year but
remained w ell abo ve historical le vels.
Outside the banking sector , assets under man-
agement (AUM) of mone y mar ket funds
(MMFs) continued to increase in 2023.
Growth in prime MMFs lik ely reflects faster
increases in their yields relative to the yields of other MMFs and deposit rates, as shor t-term
interest rates ha ve risen. Combined AUM in other cash-management vehicles—such as offshore
prime MMFs, short-term investment funds, private liquidity funds, and ultrashor t bond funds—
continued to increase and remained at a historically high le vel. Rule changes for MMFs b y the
Securities and Exchange Commission that w ent into effect in July 2023 represent refor ms to
address the str uctural w eaknesses in this sector .Figure 3.6. Liquid assets held b y banks,
2001–23
G-SIBs
Large non–G-SIBs 
Other BHCs 
2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 202304812 16 20 24 28 32 
Q4 Quarterly Percent of assets 
Note: Liquid assets are cash plus estimates of securi-
ties that qualify as high-quality liquid assets as
defined b y the liquidity co verage ratio requirement.
Accordingly , Level 1 assets as w ell as discounts and
restrictions on Le vel 2 assets are incor porated into
the estimate. G-SIBs are global systemically impor tant
U.S. banks. Large non–G-SIBs are bank holding com-
panies (BHCs) and inter mediate holding companies
with greater than $100 billion in total assets that are
not G-SIBs.
Source: F ederal Reser ve Board, Form FR Y-9C, Consoli-
dated F inancial Statements for Holding Companies.Financial Stability 21