2Monetar y Policy and Economic
Developments
The Federal Reser ve conducts the nation’ s monetar y policy to promote maximum emplo yment, stable
prices, and moderate long-ter m interest rates in the U.S. econom y. This section re views U.S. monetar y
policy and economic de velopments in 2023 b y providing excer pts and select figures from the Monetar y
Policy Repor tpublished in March 2024 and June 2023 .1The repor t, submitted semiannually to the
Congress, is delivered concur rently with testimon y from the F ederal Reser ve Board Chair .2
March 2024 Summar y
While inflation remains abo ve the F ederal Open Mar ket Committee’ s (FOMC) objective of 2 percent, it
has eased substantially o ver the past year , and the slowing in inflation has occur red without a signifi-
cant increase in unemplo yment. The labor mar ket remains relatively tight, with the unemplo yment rate
near historically low le vels and job vacancies still ele vated. Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth
has also been strong , suppor ted by solid increases in consumer spending .
The FOMC has maintained the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent since
its July 2023 meeting . The Committee vie ws the policy rate as lik ely at its peak for this tightening
cycle, which began in ear ly 2022. The F ederal Reser ve has also continued to reduce its holdings
of Treasur y and agency mor tgage-back ed securities.
As labor mar ket tightness has eased and progress on inflation has continued, the risks to achie ving the
Committee’ s emplo yment and inflation goals ha ve been mo ving into better balance. Even so, the Com-
mittee remains highly attentive to inflation risks and is acutely a ware that high inflation imposes signifi-
cant hardship, especially on those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials.
The FOMC is strongly committed to retur ning inflation to its 2 percent objective. In considering an y
adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess
incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. The Committee does not expect it
will be appropriate to reduce the target range until it has gained greater confidence that inflation is
moving sustainably tow ard 2 percent.
1Those complete repor ts are a vailable on the Board’ s website at https://www .federalreser ve.go v/publications/files/
20240301_mprfullrepor t.pdf (March 2024) and https://www .federalreser ve.go v/monetar ypolicy/files/
20230616_mprfullrepor t.pdf (June 2023).
2As required b y section 2B of the F ederal Reser ve Act, the Federal Reser ve Board submits written repor ts to the Congress
that contain discussions of “the conduct of monetar y policy and economic de velopments and prospects for the future. ”3