Bank Super visors of the Americas, the National Banking and Securities Commission of Mexico,
and the European Central Bank.
Efforts to Suppor t Minority-Owned Depositor y Institutions
The F ederal Reser ve System implements its responsibilities under section 367 of the Dodd-F rank
Act primarily through its P artnership for Progress (PFP) program.14Established in 2008, this pro-
gram promotes the viability of minority depositor y institutions (MDIs) b y facilitating activities
designed to strengthen their business strategies, maximize their resources, and increase their
awareness and under standing of super visory expectations. The program suppor ts an inclusive
financial system and helps facilitate access to credit and other financial ser vices in traditionally
under served areas.
The F ederal Reser ve maintains the PFP w ebsite, which suppor ts MDIs b y providing them with tech-
nical infor mation and links to useful resources.15Representatives from each of the 12 F ederal
Reser ve Districts, along with staff from the Divisions of Super vision & Regulation and Consumer &
Community Affair s at the Board of Go vernors, continue to offer technical assistance tailored to
MDIs b y providing targeted super visory guidance, identifying additional resources, and fostering
mutually beneficial par tnerships betw een MDIs and community organizations. As of year-end
2023, the Federal Reser ve’s MDI por tfolio consisted of 16 state member banks.
Throughout 2023, the System suppor ted MDIs and conducted a number of outreach initiatives,
webinar s, and conferences specific to MDIs, including the following:
•2023 Interag ency Minority Depositor y Institution and CDFI Bank Confer ence: The F ederal Reser ve
along with the FDIC and OCC, hosted the biennial interagency conference for MDI and Commu-
nity De velopment F inancial Institution (CDFI) banks on No vember 15–16, 2023, at the F ederal
Reser ve Bank of Dallas. The conference theme w as “MDI and CDFI Bank P artnership Exchange”
and focused on collaboration, partnership, and promoting the mission of MDIs and CDFIs
among leader s at these institutions.
•September 2023 Minorities in Banking F orum: The F ederal Reser ve Bank of Dallas hosted the
System’ s annual Minorities in Banking F orum on September 27–28, 2023. This for um w as for
mid-le vel and senior banking leader s in the financial ser vices industr y and focused on leader-
ship, diversity, and career enhancement.
14Section 367 of the Dodd-F rank Act requires the Board to submit an annual repor t to Congress detailing the actions
taken to fulfill the requirements outlined in section 308 of the F inancial Institutions Refor m, Recovery, and Enforcement
Act (FIRREA) of 1989, as amended b y the Dodd-F rank Act in 2010. In addition to the annual repor ting requirement,
FIRREA section 308 requires the F ederal Reser ve System to de vote effor ts tow ard preser ving and promoting minority
owner ship of MDIs. See also “ Annual Repor t on Promoting Minority Depositor y Institutions, ” Board of Go vernors of the
Federal Reser ve System, last modified December 21, 2023, https://www .federalreser ve.go v/publications/preser ving-
minority-depositor y-institutions.htm .
15See https://www .fedpar tnership.go v.38 110th Annual Repor t | 2023