also operated 88 representative offices; an
additional 32 foreign banks operated in the
United States through a representative office.
The F ederal Reser ve conducted or par tici-
pated with state and federal regulator y
authorities in 684 examinations of foreign
banks in 2023.
Super visory Developments
Super visory and Regulator y Initiatives
The F ederal Reser ve’s super vision activities
include examinations and inspections to help
ensure that financial institutions operate in a
safe and sound manner and comply with la ws
and regulations, including consumer protec-
tion. These include an assessment of a finan-
cial institution’ s risk-management systems,
financial conditions, governance and controls,
and compliance. The F ederal Reser ve tailor s
its super visory approach based on the size
and complexity of fir ms. Super visory oversight
ranges from a continuous super visory pres-
ence with dedicated teams of examiner s for
large fir ms to regular point-in-time and tar-
geted periodic examinations for small, non-
complex fir ms.
Super visory priorities are focused on both pre vi-
ously identified super visory findings and emerging
concer ns arising from changing economic condi-
tions. Examiner s monitor and assess a super-
vised institution’ s remediation of super visory find-
ings in areas, such as independent risk
management and controls, compliance, operational and cyber resilience, and infor mation technolog y.
In 2023, the Federal Reser ve conducted 316 examinations of state member banks, 2,894 inspec-
tions of bank holding companies, and 120 inspections of sa vings and loan holding companies.Box 4.2. F ailure of Silicon
Valley Bank and the F ederal
Reser ve’s Response
Following the failures of Silicon V alley Bank
(SVB) and Signature Bank in March 2023,
the Federal Reser ve took action to respond
to the cur rent banking conditions and conta-
gion risk across the financial system,
including enhancing monitoring of fir ms with
similar risk profiles.
Immediately after SVB’ s failure, Chair Jerome
Powell and V ice Chair for Super vision Michael
Barr agreed that V ice Chair for Super vision
Barr should lead a re view of the failure, and
on April 28, 2023, the results of that re view
were published. The repor t provided a re view
of the factor s that contributed to the failure
of SVB. The repor t show ed that SVB w as a
highly vulnerable fir m in w ays that w ere not
fully appreciated b y the fir m’s board of direc-
tors, senior management, and F ederal
Reser ve super visors. These vulnerabilities—
foundational and widespread managerial
weaknesses, a highly concentrated business
model, and a reliance on uninsured
deposits—left SVB exposed to the specific
combination of rising interest rates and
slowing activity in the technolog y sector that
materialized in 2022 and ear ly 2023.
The failure of SVB and the ensuing stress in
the banking system highlighted the need to
impro ve the speed, force, and agility of super-
vision to align better with the risks, size, and
complexity of super vised banks, as appro-
priate. The F ederal Reser ve has been
working to ensure super vision intensifies at
the right pace as a bank grows in size and
complexity , to modify super visory processes
so that issues, once identified, are
addressed more quickly b y both banks and
super visors, and to find better w ays to
incorporate forw ard-looking analysis into
super vision.Super vision and Regulation 29