commercial and residential real estate mar kets continued to be ele vated. Bor rowing b y house-
holds and businesses gre w a bit more slowly than GDP , leaving vulnerabilities arising from house-
hold and business debt largely unchanged at moderate levels. In the banking sector, heavy reli-
ance on uninsured deposits, declining fair values of long-duration fixed-rate assets associated with
higher interest rates, and poor risk management led to the failure of three domestic banks. Broad
bank equity prices fell sharply as market participants reassessed the strength of some banks with
similar risk profiles to those that failed. However, the broader banking sector maintained substan-
tial loss-absorbing capacity and ample liquidity. In the nonbank financial sector, leverage at hedge
funds remained elevated, and structural vulnerabilities associated with funding risk persisted at
some money market funds and certain mutual funds. (See the box “ Developments Related to
Financial Stability ” on pages 31–32 of the June 2023 Monetar y Policy Repor t.)
International de velopments. Following a slowdown at the end of 2022, foreign activity rebounded
early this year . This rebound w as driven in par t by strong growth in China, as the lifting of
COVID-19 restrictions unleashed pent-up demand, though recent indicator s suggest that
momentum is slowing . Europe show ed resilience to the energ y price shock stemming from Rus-
sia’s war against Ukraine. F oreign headline inflation continued to fall, driven b y declines in retail
energ y prices. How ever, while energ y inflation has moderated in man y foreign economies, both
food and core inflation remain ele vated.
Since Januar y, several major foreign central banks continued tightening their monetar y policies,
communicating concer ns about ele vated inflation and tight labor mar kets. That said, some central
banks also emphasized the need to be cautious in their approach, given the lags of monetar y
policy and the uncer tainty about the outlook for growth and inflation. The trade-w eighted exchange
value of the U.S. dollar is a touch low er.
Monetar y Policy
In response to high inflation, the FOMC continued to increase the target range for the federal
funds rate and reduce its securities holdings this year . Adjustments to both interest rates and the
balance sheet are pla ying a role in fir ming the stance of monetar y policy in suppor t of the F ederal
Reser ve’s maximum-emplo yment and price-stability goals.
Interest rate policy .The FOMC continued to increase the target range for the federal funds rate,
bringing it to the cur rent range of 5 to 5¼ percent. In light of the cumulative tightening of mon-
etary policy and the lags with which monetar y policy affects economic activity and inflation, the
FOMC slow ed the pace of policy tightening relative to last year . The FOMC will deter mine meeting
by meeting the extent of additional policy fir ming that ma y be appropriate to retur n inflation to
2 percent o ver time, based on the totality of incoming data and their implications for the outlook
for economic activity and inflation.Monetar y Policy and Economic De velopments 11