•National Banker s Association: Board staff represented PFP at the National Bank ers Association
conference in W ashington, D.C. The conference focused on building par tnerships, technolog y,
capital, and deposits.
•Bank Term Funding Pro gram: The PFP team hosted a special “ Ask the F ed” w ebinar on the Bank
Term Funding Program for MDIs and CDFIs.
•Emerg ency Capital In vestment Pro gram (ECIP):16The PFP , along with the FDIC and OCC, hosted
an ECIP Interagency W ebinar to pro vide MDIs with technical assistance on super visory expecta-
tions for ECIP recipients.
International Eng agement
As a member of the FSB and se veral inter national financial standard-setting bodies, the Federal
Reser ve actively par ticipates in effor ts to share infor mation and advance sound super visory poli-
cies for inter nationally active financial organizations and to enhance the strength, stability , and
resilience of the inter national financial system.
Financial Stability Board
In 2023, the Federal Reser ve continued its par ticipation in a variety of activities of the FSB, an
organization whose mission is to promote inter national financial stability . The FSB helps coordi-
nate the wor k of national financial authorities and inter national standard-setting bodies and
shares infor mation on super visory and regulator y practices. Priority areas for the year included
enhancing cross-border pa yments, finalizing recommendations for regulating and super vising
crypto-assets and stablecoins, revising recommendations to address vulnerabilities of open-ended
funds, and de veloping a toolkit for enhancing third-par ty risk management and o versight. The full
range of the F ederal Reser ve’s FSB activities is discussed in section 3 , “Financial Stability .”
The FSB also produces a variety of publications, including progress repor ts, monitoring repor ts,
guidance, consultative documents, and compendia of better practice. Examples issued in
2023 include
•The F inancial Stability Risks of Decentralised F inance (issued in F ebruary and a vailable at
https://www .fsb.org/2023/02/the-financial-stability-risks-of-decentralised-finance/ )
•The F inancial Stability Aspects of Commodities Markets (issued in F ebruary and a vailable at
https://www .fsb.org/2023/02/the-financial-stability-aspects-of-commodities-mar kets/)
•High-le vel Recommendations for the Regulation, Super vision and Over sight of Cr ypto-Asset Activi-
ties and Markets: F inal Repor t(issued in July and a vailable at https://www .fsb.org/2023/07/
high-le vel-recommendations-for-the-regulation-super vision-and-o versight-of-cr ypto-asset-activities-
and-mar kets-final-repor t/)
16Established b y the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, the Emergency Capital In vestment Program (ECIP) w as cre-
ated to encourage low- and moderate-income community financial institutions to augment their effor ts to suppor t small
businesses and consumer s in their communities. Under the program, the U.S. T reasur y Depar tment pro vided near ly
$9 billion in capital directly to depositor y institutions that are cer tified CDFIs or MDIs.Super vision and Regulation 39