rowing , significant disparities in absolute le vels across groups remain. (See the box “ Emplo yment
and Ear nings across Demographic Groups ” on pages 10–12 of the March 2024 Monetar y Policy
Repor t.)
Housing sector .The rise in mor tgage rates o ver the past two year s has reduced housing demand,
resulting in a steep drop in housing activity in 2022 and a mar ked slowing in house price growth
from its historically high pace. Offsetting factor s boosting housing demand, such as the robust job
market and the increased pre valence of remote wor k, have pre vented significant price declines.
High mor tgage rates ha ve also discouraged some potential seller s with low rates on their cur rent
mortgages from mo ving, which has k ept the existing home mar ket unusually thin. The shor tage of
available existing homes has pushed some remaining homebuyer s tow ard ne w homes and sup-
ported a modest rebound in constr uction of single-family homes later in 2023. In contrast, multi-
family star ts rose to historically high le vels in 2022 but ha ve more recently fallen back because of
builder s’ concer ns about the effect of the significant amount of ne w multifamily supply on rents
and proper ty prices. (See the box “ Recent Housing Mar ket De velopments ” on pages 19–21 of the
March 2024 Monetar y Policy Repor t.)
Federal Reser ve’s balance sheet and mone y mar kets.The size of the F ederal Reser ve’s balance
sheet has decreased since June as the FOMC continued to reduce its securities holdings. Despite
ongoing balance sheet r unoff, reser ve balances—the largest liability on the F ederal Reser ve’s bal-
ance sheet—edged up as declines in the usage of the o vernight re verse repurchase agreement
facility—another F ederal Reser ve liability—more than matched the decline in assets. (See the box
“Developments in the F ederal Reser ve’s Balance Sheet and Mone y Mar kets” on pages 38–40 of
the March 2024 Monetar y Policy Repor t.)
Monetar y policy r ules. Simple monetar y policy r ules, which prescribe a setting for the policy
interest rate in response to the beha vior of a small number of economic variables, can pro vide
useful guidance to policymak ers. With inflation easing and supply and demand conditions in labor
markets coming into better balance, the policy rate prescriptions of most simple monetar y policy
rules ha ve decreased recently and now call for le vels of the federal funds rate that are close to
the cur rent target range for the federal funds rate. (See the box “ Monetar y Policy Rules in the Cur-
rent En vironment ” on pages 41–43 of the March 2024 Monetar y Policy Repor t.)8 110th Annual Repor t | 2023