On February 23, the agencies issued a second statement focused on liquidity risk and the poten-
tial volatility of funding inflows and outflows associated with cr ypto-asset activity . On
August 8, 2023, the Federal Reser ve published SR letter 23-08/CA letter 23-08, “Super visory
Nonobjection Process for State Member Banks Seeking to Engage in Cer tain Activities In volving
Dollar T okens,” describing the process through which state member banks ma y seek a super visory
nonobjection before conducting cer tain activities in volving “dollar tok ens.”7The super visory nonob-
jection expectation w as first articulated in the Board’ s Januar y 27, 2023, Policy Statement on sec-
tion 9(13) of the F ederal Reser ve Act (P olicy Statement).8The SR letter does not create an y new
substantive expectations but la ys out the process state member banks should follow to obtain
such super visory nonobjection. The letter notes that F ederal Reser ve staff will focus on opera-
tional, cyber security , liquidity , illicit finance, and consumer compliance risks.
Climate-Related F inancial Risks
In 2023, the Board launched a pilot Climate Scenario Analysis exercise to lear n about large
banking organizations’ climate risk-management practices and challenges and to enhance the
ability of both large banking organizations and super visors to identify , measure, monitor , and
manage climate-related financial risks. As described in the Participant Instructions released on
Januar y 17, 2023, the exercise considered the impact of ph ysical and transition risk scenarios of
varying le vels of se verity on par ticipating banks’ balance sheets. The exercise w as explorator y in
nature and does not ha ve consequences for bank capital or super visory implications.9
On October 24, 2023, the Board, along with other federal banking regulator y agencies, finalized
principles that pro vide a high-le vel frame work for the safe and sound management of exposures to
climate-related financial risks for large financial institutions.10The principles are intended for insti-
tutions with $100 billion or more in total assets and address ph ysical and transition risks associ-
ated with climate change. General climate-related financial risk management principles are pro-
vided with respect to a financial institution’ s governance; policies, procedures, and limits; strategic
planning; risk management; data, risk measurement, and repor ting; and scenario analysis. Addi-
tionally , the principles describe how climate-related financial risks can be addressed in the man-
agement of traditional risk areas, including credit, market, liquidity , operational, and legal risks.
Enforcement Actions
The F ederal Reser ve has enforcement authority o ver the financial institutions it super vises and
their affiliated par ties. Enforcement actions ma y be tak en to address unsafe or unsound practices
and violations of la w or regulation. F ormal enforcement actions include cease and desist order s,
7See https://www .federalreser ve.go v/super visionreg/sr letter s/SR2308.htm .
8See https://www .federalreser ve.go v/newsevents/pressreleases/bcreg20230127a.htm .
9See https://www .federalreser ve.go v/publications/climate-scenario-analysis-exercise-instr uctions.htm .
10See https://www .federalreser ve.go v/newsevents/pressreleases/bcreg20231024b.htm .Super vision and Regulation 35