Fiduciar y Activities
In 2023, Federal Reser ve examiner s conducted 73 fiduciar y examinations of state member banks
and non-depositor y trust companies.
Transfer Agents
During 2023, the Federal Reser ve conducted transfer agent examinations at three state member
banks and two BHCs that w ere registered as transfer agents.
Government and Municipal Securities Dealer s and Brok ers
The F ederal Reser ve is responsible for examining state member banks and foreign banks for com-
pliance with the Go vernment Securities Act of 1986 and with the U.S. T reasur y regulations go v-
erning dealing and brok ering in go vernment securities. During 2023, the Federal Reser ve con-
ducted eight examinations of go vernment securities activities at these organizations.
The F ederal Reser ve is also responsible for ensuring that state member banks and BHCs that act
as municipal securities dealer s comply with the Securities Act Amendments of 1975. Municipal
securities dealer s are examined, pursuant to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board’ s
rule G-16, at least once e very two calendar year s. During 2023, the Federal Reser ve examined
six entities that dealt in municipal securities.
Securities Credit Lender s
Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Board is responsible for regulating credit in cer-
tain transactions in volving the purchasing or car rying of securities. As par t of its general examina-
tion program, the Federal Reser ve examines the banks under its jurisdiction for compliance with
the Board’ s Regulation U. In addition, the Federal Reser ve maintains a registr y of per sons other
than banks, brokers, and dealer s who extend credit subject to Regulation U. Throughout the year ,
Federal Reser ve examiner s conducted specialized examinations of these lender s if the y are not
already subject to super vision b y the F arm Credit Administration or the National Credit Union
Administration.
Operational Resilience, Information Technolo gy, and Cyber security
Effective operational risk management and resilience are vital to the safety and soundness of
financial institutions and the stability of the U.S. financial system.3The F ederal Reser ve pro vides
guidance, tools, and educational resources to assist super vised institutions in managing
such risks.
3Operational risk management includes risk management of infor mation technolog y, cyber, and third-par ty risks.32 110th Annual Repor t | 2023