Monitoring F inancial V ulnerabilities
This section describes the F ederal Reser ve’s monitoring of vulnerabilities in the financial system
during 2023.
Financial institutions are link ed together through a complex set of relationships, and their resil-
ience depends on the economic condition of households and businesses. In tur n, the condition of
households and businesses hinges on the strength of financial institutions’ balance sheets, as
the nonfinancial sector obtains funding through the financial sector . The F ederal Reser ve’s meas-
ures to monitor risks to financial stability are designed to better under stand these complex link-
ages and ha ve been an impor tant par t of the F ederal Reser ve’s effor ts to achie ve overall eco-
nomic stability .
A stable financial system, when hit b y adver se events, or “shocks, ” is able to continue meeting
demands for financial ser vices from households and businesses, such as credit pro vision and pa y-
ment ser vices. By contrast, in an unstable system, these same shocks are lik ely to ha ve much
larger effects, disrupting the flow of credit and leading to declines in emplo yment and economic
activity .Figure 3.1. The F ederal Reser ve assesses four k ey vulnerabilities in monitoring financial stability
Each quar ter, Federal Reser ve Board staff assess a set of four vulnerabilities rele vant for financial system stability .
These monitoring effor ts promote financial stability b y infor ming broader policy discussions and stimulating additional
research.
Leverage in the 
ﬁnancial sector Funding risk Borrowing by businesses 
and households Asset valuations 
Overvalued assets 
are a vulnerability 
because the 
unwinding of high 
prices can be 
destabilizing. Excessive borrowing 
by businesses and 
households leaves 
them vulnerable to 
distress if their 
incomes decline or 
the assets they own 
fall in value. Excessive leverage 
within the ﬁnancial 
sector increases the 
risk that ﬁnancial 
institutions will not 
have the ability to 
absorb even modest 
losses when hit by 
adverse shocks. Funding risks expose 
the ﬁnancial system 
to the possibility 
that investors will 
“run” by quickly 
withdrawing their 
funds from a 
particular institution 
or sector. Why it matters: Why it matters: Why it matters: Why it matters: 16 110th Annual Repor t | 2023