written agreements, prompt cor rective action directives, removal and prohibition order s, civil
mone y penalties, and letter s sent pur suant to 12 U.S.C. § 1829, known as Section 19 letter s.
In 2023, the Federal Reser ve completed 63 for mal enforcement actions. Civil mone y penalties
totaling $542,329,952.20 w ere assessed. As directed b y statute, all civil mone y penalties are
remitted to either the U.S. T reasur y or the F ederal Emergency Management Agency . The Reser ve
Banks completed 99 infor mal enforcement actions. Infor mal enforcement actions include memo-
randa of under standing , commitment letter s, super visory letter s, and board of director s’
resolutions.
Enforcement order s and prompt cor rective action directives, which are issued b y the Board, and
written agreements, which are executed b y the Reser ve Banks, are made public and are posted on
the Board’ s website ( https://www .federalreser ve.go v/apps/enforcementactions/search.aspx ).
The F ederal Reser ve’s enforcement responsibilities also extend to the disclosure of financial infor-
mation b y state member banks and the use of credit to purchase and car ry securities.
Financial Disclosures b y State Member Banks
Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the F ederal Reser ve’s Regulation H, certain state
member banks are required to mak e financial disclosures to the F ederal Reser ve using the same
repor ting for ms that are nor mally used b y publicly held entities to submit infor mation to the SEC.11
In 2023, one state member bank w as required to submit data to the F ederal Reser ve. These data
are made a vailable upon request and are primarily used for disclosure to the bank’ s shareholder s
and public in vestor s.
Internal Appeals of Material Super visory Determinations
The Board is committed to maintaining an independent, intra-agency process to re view appeals of
material super visory deter minations (MSD) that complies with section 309 of the Riegle Commu-
nity De velopment and Regulator y Impro vement Act of 1994.12The appeals process includes two
levels of re view. A panel of Reser ve Bank staff who are not emplo yed b y the Reser ve Bank with
super visory responsibility of the financial institution that issued the appealed MSD conducts the
initial re view. This panel deter mines whether the appealed MSD is consistent with applicable la ws,
regulations, and policy , and is suppor ted by a preponderance of the e vidence in the record. If the
11Under section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act, certain companies that ha ve issued securities are subject to SEC
registration and filing requirements that are similar to those that apply to public companies. P er section 12(i) of the
Securities Exchange Act, the pow ers of the SEC o ver banking entities that fall under section 12(g) are vested with the
appropriate banking regulator . Specifically , state member banks with 2,000 or more shareholder s and more than
$10 million in total assets are required to register with, and submit data to, the Federal Reser ve. For more infor mation
on the Board’ s Regulation H policy action, see appendix E , “Record of P olicy Actions. ”
12U.S.C. § 4806.36 110th Annual Repor t | 2023