tent with the FOMC’ s longer-r un objective of 2 percent, suggesting that high inflation is not
becoming entrenched.
The labor mar ket.The labor mar ket has remained ver y tight, with job gains a veraging 314,000 per
month during the fir st five months of the year and the unemplo yment rate remaining near his-
torical lows. Labor demand has eased in man y sector s of the econom y but continues to exceed
the supply of a vailable wor kers, with job vacancies still ele vated. Labor supply has impro ved, with
a pickup in immigration and an impro vement in the labor force par ticipation rate, particular ly
among prime-age wor kers. Nominal w age gains continued to slow in the fir st half of 2023, but the y
remain abo ve the pace consistent with 2 percent inflation o ver the longer ter m, given pre vailing
trends in productivity growth.
Economic activity .After the strong rebound in 2021 from the pandemic-induced recession, eco-
nomic activity lost momentum last year , and growth in the fir st quar ter of this year w as modest as
financial conditions continued to tighten. Real consumer spending gre w at a solid pace in the fir st
quarter but appear s to be moderating as consumer financing conditions ha ve tightened and con-
sumer confidence has remained low . Real business fixed in vestment growth continued to slow in
the fir st quar ter, likely reflecting tighter financial conditions and w eaker output growth, while manu-
facturing output has been roughly unchanged so far this year after ha ving declined in the four th
quarter. Activity in the housing sector continued to contract in response to ele vated mor tgage
rates, but se veral indicator s appear to ha ve bottomed out.
Financial conditions. Financial conditions ha ve tightened fur ther since Januar y. The FOMC has
raised the target range for the federal funds rate a fur ther 75 basis points since Januar y, and the
market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate o ver the next year shifted up. Though yields
on longer-ter m nominal T reasur y securities w ere little changed, on net, over this period, the rela-
tively high le vel of interest rates has w eighed on financing activity . Business loans at banks gre w
since the star t of 2023, but the pace of growth continued to slow as banks tightened standards
and a verage bor rowing costs rose. In vestment-grade cor porate bond issuance rebounded to a
brisk pace in Ma y, following a slowdown in March and April. Speculative-grade issuance rebounded
as well but w as still subdued b y historical standards. While business credit quality remains strong ,
some indicator s of future business defaults are some what ele vated. F or households, mortgage
originations remained w eak, although consumer loans (such as auto loans and credit cards) gre w
further. After ha ving risen last year , delinquency rates le veled off in the fir st quar ter for auto loans
and continued to increase for credit card loans.
Financial stability .Despite concer ns about profitability at some banks, the banking system
remains sound and resilient. Most measures of valuation pressures in cor porate securities mar-
kets remained near the middle of their historical distributions. By contrast, valuation pressures in10 110th Annual Repor t | 2023