Consistent with this vie w of financial stability , the Federal Reser ve Board’ s monitoring frame work
distinguishes betw een shocks to and vulnerabilities of the financial system. Shocks, such as
sudden changes to financial or economic conditions, are inherently hard to predict. V ulnerabilities
tend to build up o ver time and are the aspects of the financial system that are most expected to
cause widespread problems in times of stress.
Accordingly , the Federal Reser ve maintains a flexible, forward-looking financial stability monitoring
program focused on assessing how the le vel and configuration of those vulnerabilities affect the
financial system’ s resilience to a wide range of potential adver se shocks.
Each quar ter, Federal Reser ve Board staff assess a set of vulnerabilities rele vant for financial sta-
bility, including , but not limited to, asset valuation pressures, borrowing b y households and busi-
nesses, leverage in the financial sector , and funding risk. These monitoring effor ts infor m discus-
sions concer ning policies to promote financial stability , such as super vision and regulator y policies
as well as monetar y policy . They also infor m Federal Reser ve interactions with broader monitoring
efforts, such as those b y the FSOC and the F inancial Stability Board (FSB).
Since 2018, the Federal Reser ve Board has also published its Financial Stability Repor t,which
summarizes the Board’ s frame work for assessing the resilience of the U.S. financial system and
presents the Board’ s current assessment of financial system vulnerabilities.2It aims to promote
public under standing about F ederal Reser ve vie ws on this topic and thereb y increase transparency
and accountability . The repor t complements the annual repor t of the FSOC, which is chaired b y the
Secretar y of the T reasur y and includes the F ederal Reser ve Chair and other financial regulator s.
Asset V aluation Pressures
Overvalued assets are a vulnerability because the unwinding of high prices can be destabilizing ,
especially if the assets are widely held and the values are suppor ted by excessive le verage, matur-
ity transfor mation, or risk opacity . Moreo ver, stretched asset valuations ma y be an indicator of a
broader buildup in risk-taking . Because it is ver y difficult to judge whether an asset price is o ver-
valued relative to fundamentals, the Federal Reser ve’s analysis of asset valuation pressures typi-
cally tracks a broad range of measures, including price volatility , underwriting standards, and
investor flows.
The econom y remained strong o ver the year , and the economic outlook centered on continued
growth. Against this backdrop, valuation pressures across different sector s remained notable.
2See Board of Go vernors of the F ederal Reser ve System, Financial Stability Repor t(Washington: Board of Go vernors,
April 2024), https://www .federalreser ve.go v/publications/files/financial-stability-repor t-20240419.pdf ; and Board of
Governors of the F ederal Reser ve System, Financial Stability Repor t(Washington: Board of Go vernors, October 2023),
https://www .federalreser ve.go v/publications/files/financial-stability-repor t-20231020.pdf .Financial Stability 17