Balance sheet policy .The F ederal Reser ve has continued the process of significantly reducing its
holdings of T reasur y and agency securities in a predictable manner .4Beginning in June of last year ,
principal pa yments from securities held in the System Open Mar ket Account (SOMA) ha ve been
reinvested only to the extent that the y exceeded monthly caps. The F ederal Reser ve has reduced
its securities holdings b y about $420 billion since Januar y. This decrease in assets w as par tially
offset b y liquidity pro visions to the banking system following the banking-sector stresses in March.
Special T opics
Emplo yment and ear nings across groups. Strong labor demand o ver the past two year s has par-
ticular ly benefited historically more disadvantaged wor kers. As a result, many of the disparities in
emplo yment and w ages across racial, ethnic, sex, and education groups, which had been exacer-
bated b y the pandemic, have nar rowed—in some cases to historically nar row ranges. Despite this
narrowing , there remain significant disparities in absolute le vels of emplo yment and w ages across
groups. (See the box “ Developments in Emplo yment and Ear nings across Demographic Groups ”
on pages 11–13 of the June 2023 Monetar y Policy Repor t.)
Bank stress and lending .Bank lending conditions ha ve tightened notably o ver the past year , and
bank loan growth has slow ed, following the tightening of monetar y policy that star ted in ear ly
2022. Banking-sector strains in March 2023 repor tedly led to fur ther tightening in lending condi-
tions at some banks. Results from the April 2023 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Sur vey on Bank
Lending Practices show that banks expect to fur ther tighten their lending standards o ver the
remainder of 2023, with some banks repor ting concer ns about their liquidity positions, deposit
outflows, and funding costs. Economic research suggests that tighter credit conditions at banks
can ha ve adver se effects on economic activity , but different studies find effects that var y in scope,
magnitude, and timing . In ter ms of scope, the effects are also lik ely to differ across bor rowers,
economic sector s, and geographic areas, and the y may be larger for sector s that depend more
heavily on bank credit, such as the commercial real estate and the small business sector s. (See
the box “ Recent De velopments in Bank Lending Conditions ” on pages 21–23 of the June 2023
Monetar y Policy Repor t.)
Federal Reser ve’s balance sheet and mone y mar kets.The F ederal Reser ve continued to reduce
the size of its SOMA por tfolio. How ever, in March, amid banking-sector de velopments, borrowing
from the discount window increased, and the F ederal Reser ve implemented a ne w facility , the
Bank T erm Funding Program (BTFP), to mak e additional funding a vailable to eligible depositor y
institutions. As a result of F ederal Reser ve lending through the BTFP , the discount window, and
other credit extensions, the Federal Reserve’s total assets have increased since March. Take-up
4See the Ma y 4, 2022, press release regarding the Plans for Reducing the Size of the F ederal Reser ve’s Balance Sheet,
available on the Board’ s website at https://www .federalreser ve.go v/newsevents/pressreleases/monetar y20220504b.htm .12 110th Annual Repor t | 2023