After modest outflows in 2023, the total outstanding amount of cor porate bonds held b y mutual
funds fell to its low est le vel of the past decade. Bond mutual funds experienced net redemptions
throughout the year , which the y managed in an order ly manner .
Finally, stablecoin assets remained sizable at around $125 billion. Given their footprint in mone y
market instr uments, runs on stablecoins could amplify strains in shor t-term funding mar kets.
Stablecoins are also used as cash substitutes in cr ypto trading , which can amplify the risk of dis-
ruptive spillo vers from the cr ypto ecosystem to the traditional financial system. The lack of regula-
tory oversight for stablecoins adds to their vulnerabilities.
Domestic and Inter national Cooperation and Coordination
The F ederal Reser ve cooperated and coordinated with both domestic and inter national institutions
in 2023 to promote financial stability .
Financial Stability Over sight Council Activities
As mandated b y the Dodd-F rank W all Street Refor m and Consumer Protection Act, the FSOC w as
created in 2010. The FSOC is chaired b y the Secretar y of the T reasur y and includes the Chair of
the Board of Go vernors of the F ederal Reser ve System as a member . It established an institu-
tional frame work for identifying and responding to sources of systemic risk. Through collaborative
participation in the FSOC, U.S. financial regulator s monitor not only institutions, but also the finan-
cial system as a whole. The F ederal Reser ve, in conjunction with other par ticipants, assists in
monitoring financial risks, analyzing the implications of those risks for financial stability , and identi-
fying steps that can be tak en to mitigate those risks. In addition, when the FSOC designates an
institution as systemically impor tant, the Federal Reser ve assumes responsibility for super vising
that institution.
The FSOC continued to ser ve as a central venue for member agencies to collaborate as w ell as
discuss and assess financial stability risks. In 2023, the council had four areas of priority: (1) non-
bank financial inter mediation, (2) Treasur y mar ket resilience, (3) climate-related financial risk, and
(4) digital assets.3
The council continued to assess vulnerabilities associated with nonbank financial institutions. The
Hedge Fund W orking Group (HFWG) has de veloped an interagency risk-monitoring system to
assess the financial stability risks associated with hedge funds. The Nonbank Mor tgage Ser vicing
Task F orce continued monitoring the financial stability risks posed b y nonbank mor tgage ser vicers.
3See F inancial Stability Over sight Council, “Minutes of the F inancial Stability Over sight Council” (W ashington: FSOC, Feb-
ruary 10, 2023), https://home.treasur y.gov/system/files/261/FSOC_20230210_Minutes.pdf .22 110th Annual Repor t | 2023