In tur n, financial stress among households and businesses can lead to mounting losses at finan-
cial institutions, creating an adver se feedback loop in which w eaknesses among households, non-
financial businesses, and financial institutions cause fur ther declines in income and accelerate
financial losses, potentially leading to financial instability and a shar p contraction in economic
activity .
A commonly used measure of the financial
position of households and businesses is the
ratio of the combined total debt of nonfinan-
cial businesses and households relative to
gross domestic product (GDP). T otal debt
declined o ver the year , even as nominal GDP
continued to grow in 2023, leaving the credit-
to-GDP ratio close to its low est le vel in
20 year s (figure 3.4 ). This de velopment sug-
gests that, in the aggregate, households and
businesses do not appear to ha ve bor rowed
excessively .
Separate examination of business and house-
hold bor rowing yields some additional
insights. The gross le verage of large
businesses—the ratio of debt to assets for all
publicly traded nonfinancial fir ms—declined
slightly but remained ele vated b y historical
standards. Net le verage—the ratio of debt
less cash to assets—show ed a similar trend.
The ability of public fir ms to ser vice their debt, as measured b y the interest co verage ratio,
remained high b y historical standards, in par t reflecting solid ear nings. The adver se effect of rising
interest rates on the ability of businesses to ser vice their debt continued to be muted, as cor po-
rate bonds—which account for the majority of the debt of public fir ms—generally ha ve fixed
interest rates. Although businesses with floating-rate obligations experienced significant increases
in interest expenses, earnings w ere sufficiently strong for most fir ms to handle these higher
interest pa yments without stress.
Business credit quality declined slightly in 2023. The volume of downgrades exceeded the volume
of upgrades, and default rates slightly increased. Ne vertheless, both remained low b y historical
standards. Direct lending to nonfinancial businesses b y private credit funds and other privateFigure 3.4. Private nonfinancial-sector
credit-to-GDP ratio, 1985–2023
1988 1995 2002 2009 2016 20230.81.11.41.72.0
Q4 Quarterly Ratio 
Note: The shaded bar s with top caps indicate periods
of business recession as defined b y the National
Bureau of Economic Research: July 1990 to
March 1991, March 2001 to No vember 2001,
December 2007 to June 2009, and F ebruary 2020 to
April 2020. GDP is gross domestic product.
Source: F ederal Reser ve Board staff calculations
based on Bureau of Economic Analysis, national
income and product accounts, and F ederal Reser ve
Board, Statistical Release Z.1, “Financial Accounts of
the United States. ”Financial Stability 19