June 2023 Summar y
Although inflation has moderated some what since the middle of last year , it remains w ell abo ve
the Federal Open Mar ket Committee’ s (FOMC) objective of 2 percent. The labor mar ket continues
to be ver y tight, with robust job gains and the unemplo yment rate near historically low le vels,
though nominal w age growth has shown some signs of easing and job vacancies ha ve declined.
Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth w as modest in the fir st quar ter, despite a pickup in con-
sumer spending . Bringing inflation back to 2 percent will lik ely require a period of below-trend
growth and some softening of labor mar ket conditions.
In response to high inflation, the FOMC continued to increase interest rates and reduce its securi-
ties holdings. The FOMC has raised the target range for the federal funds rate a fur ther 75 basis
points since the star t of the year , bringing the range to 5 to 5¼ percent. In deter mining the extent
of additional policy fir ming that ma y be appropriate to retur n inflation to 2 percent o ver time, the
FOMC indicated that it will tak e into account the cumulative tightening of monetar y policy , the lags
with which monetar y policy affects economic activity and inflation, and economic and financial
developments. The F ederal Reser ve also continued to reduce its holdings of T reasur y and agency
mortgage-back ed securities; these holdings ha ve declined b y about $420 billion since Januar y, fur-
ther tightening financial conditions.
The F ederal Reser ve is acutely a ware that high inflation imposes significant hardship, especially
on those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials. The FOMC is strongly committed to
returning inflation to its 2 percent objective.
Recent Economic and F inancial De velopments
Inflation. Consumer price inflation, as measured b y the 12-month change in the price index for
personal consumption expenditures (PCE), was 4.4 percent in April, down from its peak of
7.0 percent last June but still w ell abo ve the FOMC’ s 2 percent objective. Core PCE price
inflation—which excludes volatile food and energ y prices and is generally considered a better
guide to the direction of future inflation—is also off its peak but w as still 4.7 percent o ver the
12 months ending in April. As supply chain bottlenecks ha ve eased and demand has stabilized,
increases in core goods prices slow ed considerably o ver the past year . Within core ser vices prices,
housing ser vices inflation has been high, but the monthly changes ha ve star ted to ease in recent
months, consistent with the slow er increases in rents for ne w tenants that ha ve been obser ved
since the second half of last year . For other core ser vices, price inflation remains ele vated and has
not shown signs of easing , and prospects for slowing inflation ma y depend in par t on a fur ther
easing of tight labor mar ket conditions. Measures of longer-ter m inflation expectations are within
the range of values seen in the decade before the pandemic and continue to be broadly consis-Monetar y Policy and Economic De velopments 9