appealing institution is not satisfied with the initial re view panel’ s decision, the institution ma y
request a final re view of the MSD . A panel of senior Board staff conducts the final re view. The final
review panel deter mines whether the decision of the initial re view panel is reasonable. Additional
information is a vailable regarding the F ederal Reser ve Board’ s appeals process and Ombuds
policy .13
In 2023, the Board received one MSD appeal from a state member community banking organiza-
tion. The Board also granted one request for an extension to file an appeal from another state
member community banking organization.
Assessments f or Super vision and Regulation
BHCs and SLHCs with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, as well as an y nonbank
financial companies designated b y the FSOC for super vision b y the Board, are subject to assess-
ments for the cost of the Board’ s super vision and regulation. As a collecting entity , the Board does
not recognize the super vision and regulation assessments as re venue nor does the Board use the
collections to fund Board expenses; the funds are transfer red to the U.S. T reasur y. The Board col-
lected and transfer red to the U.S. T reasur y $771,050,870 from 53 institutions for the 2022 S&R
Regulation TT assessment in 2023.
Training and Technical Assistance
The F ederal Reser ve pro vides training and technical assistance to foreign super visors and
minority-owned depositor y institutions as w ell as engages in industr y outreach in connection with
super visory objectives.
International T raining and T echnical Assistance
In 2023, the Federal Reser ve continued to pro vide training and technical assistance on super vi-
sory matter s to foreign central banks and super visory authorities. T echnical assistance nor mally
involves visits b y Federal Reser ve staff member s to foreign authorities as w ell as consultations
with foreign super visors who visit the Board of Go vernors or the Reser ve Banks. The F ederal
Reser ve organized 20 training seminar s, held both onshore and o verseas, for the benefit of for-
eign super visory authorities. Approximately 900 financial institution super visors from foreign cen-
tral banks and super visory agencies attended these training e vents during 2023.
Federal Reser ve staff also collaborated with the Inter national Monetar y Fund and the W orld Bank
to organize two training e vents for senior super visory officials. Other training par tners that collabo-
rated with the F ederal Reser ve during 2023 to organize training e vents included the Association of
13See https://www .federalreser ve.go v/super visionreg/sr letter s/SR2028.htm  and https://www .federalreser ve.go v/
aboutthefed/ombpolicy .htm.Super vision and Regulation 37