institutions or betw een financial institutions and the FMU. The F ederal Reser ve super vises FMUs
that are char tered as member banks or Edge Act cor porations, and coordinates with other federal
banking super visors to super vise FMUs considered bank ser vice pro viders under the Bank Ser vice
Compan y Act.
In July 2012, the Financial Stability Over sight Council (FSOC) voted to designate eight FMUs as
systemically impor tant under title VIII of the Dodd-F rank W all Street Refor m and Consumer Protec-
tion Act (Dodd-F rank Act). As a result of these designations, the Board assumed an expanded set
of responsibilities related to these designated FMUs that includes promoting unifor m risk-
management standards, playing an enhanced role in the super vision of designated FMUs, reducing
systemic risk, and suppor ting the stability of the broader financial system. F or cer tain designated
FMUs, the Board established risk-management standards and expectations that are ar ticulated in
the Board’ s Regulation HH.
In addition to setting minimum risk-management standards, Regulation HH establishes advance
notice requirements for proposed material changes to the r ules, procedures, or operations of a
designated FMU for which the Board is the super visory agency under title VIII. F inally, Regula-
tion HH also establishes minimum conditions and requirements for a F ederal Reser ve Bank to
establish and maintain an account for , and pro vide ser vices to, a designated FMU.1Where the
Board is not the title VIII super visory agency , the Federal Reser ve wor ks closely with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Commodity Futures T rading Commission to promote
robust FMU risk management and monitor systemic risks across the designated FMUs.
International Activities
Foreign operations of U.S. banking organizations. At the end of 2023, a total of 21 member
banks w ere operating 251 branches in foreign countries and o verseas areas of the United States.
Ten national banks w ere operating 197 of these branches, 11 state member banks w ere operating
42 of these branches, and 5 nonmember banks w ere operating the remaining 12.
Edge Act and agreement cor porations. At year-end 2023, out of 33 banking organizations char-
tered as Edge Act or agreement cor porations, 3 operated 6 Edge Act and agreement branches.
These cor porations are examined annually .
U.S. activities of foreign banks. As of year-end 2023, a total of 131 foreign banks from 47 coun-
tries operated 139 state-licensed branches and agencies, of which 6 w ere insured b y the FDIC,
and 48 OCC-licensed branches and agencies, of which 4 w ere insured b y the FDIC. These foreign
banks also owned six Edge Act and agreement cor porations. In addition, they held a controlling
interest in 33 U.S. commercial banks. Altogether , the U.S. offices of these foreign banks con-
trolled approximately 17.8 percent of U.S. commercial banking assets. These 131 foreign banks
1The F ederal Reser ve Banks maintain accounts for and pro vide ser vices to se veral designated FMUs.28 110th Annual Repor t | 2023